THE NEW MERIDIAN TRIBUNE
Technology Section

FORMER EMPLOYEE IMPLICATED IN MERIDIAN TECH BREACH
Insider knowledge may have facilitated sophisticated attack

By Jordan Blake
Published: March 17, 2024, 11:42 AM

NEW MERIDIAN CITY - The data breach that rocked Meridian Tech Labs on Friday may have had help from the inside, according to sources familiar with the investigation.

Alex Kumar, a cybersecurity specialist who was terminated from Meridian Tech Labs in February, was allegedly spotted entering the building on Friday morning, March 16th, shortly before the breach was discovered, according to two employees who spoke on condition of anonymity.

"We saw someone matching Kumar's description in the parking garage around 6:30 AM," said one source. "It was unusual because the building was supposed to be locked down."

Kumar, 34, worked at Meridian Tech for three years before being let go in what the company described as "restructuring." However, former colleagues describe the departure as contentious, with Kumar allegedly clashing with management over security protocols.

"He was always saying our systems were vulnerable," recalled a former team member. "He was frustrated that his recommendations weren't being implemented."

The breach, which exposed proprietary quantum encryption research, appears to have occurred late Thursday night, with the compromise discovered early Friday morning when automated systems flagged unusual data transfers.

Kumar's expertise in penetration testing and intimate knowledge of Meridian Tech's infrastructure would have made him uniquely capable of bypassing security measures, security analysts suggest.

"If you want to breach a system, the best way is to have insider knowledge," said cybersecurity consultant Dr. James Patterson, who is not involved in the investigation. "A former employee would know exactly where the vulnerabilities are."

Meridian Tech Labs declined to comment on personnel matters. Kumar could not be reached for comment, and it's unclear if he has legal representation.

The New Meridian Police Department confirmed an investigation is ongoing but would not comment on specific suspects.

This is a developing story.

---

EDITOR'S NOTE (March 18, 2024): An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Alex Kumar was seen entering the building on March 16th. The timeline has been disputed by building security records. The Tribune is investigating the reliability of the anonymous sources cited in this report.
