[ARCHIVED FORUM POST]
Source: TechGossip Underground Forum
Thread: "Meridian Tech Breach - What Really Happened?"
Posted: March 17, 2024, 23:47
Username: [DELETED]
Post ID: 8847392

---

Original Post:

okay so i was at Binary Bar in downtown new meridian last night (march 17) and you won't BELIEVE what i overheard

there was this guy at the bar, mid-30s, looked stressed AF, had a few drinks in him. he was talking to someone on the phone LOUDLY and i caught some of what he said:

"...they had it coming... told them the security was garbage... now they'll have to listen..."

then something about "should've kept me on the payroll"

i didn't think much of it until i saw the news about Meridian Tech getting hacked. I looked him up later and I'm like 90% sure it was Alex Kumar - the guy they fired last month!! Same face from his LinkedIn profile.

he seemed pretty pleased with himself if you ask me. kept laughing and ordering more drinks.

idk if i should report this or what. i don't want to get involved but this seems sus???

---

Reply by user CyberSkeptic:
"Dude this sounds like BS. You 'just happened' to be there? And you looked up his LinkedIn? This reads like creative writing tbh"

Reply by user InfoSecPro:
"Even if true, venting at a bar ≠ committing a crime. Lots of people trash talk their old employers. Doesn't mean he actually did anything."

Reply by user [DELETED]:
"believe what you want. i know what i heard. just saying it's a weird coincidence"

---

[MODERATOR NOTE - March 18, 2024]
This thread has been locked. The original poster deleted their account. Law enforcement has been notified of the post as part of the ongoing Meridian Tech investigation.

Please note: Unverified claims and speculation about ongoing criminal investigations violate our community guidelines.

---

INVESTIGATOR NOTE:
This post was flagged during our social media sweep. The timing (March 17) is AFTER the breach was publicly reported, making it possible the poster simply read about Alex Kumar in news coverage and fabricated the encounter.

Binary Bar security footage from March 17 has been requested but not yet reviewed. The anonymous nature of the post significantly limits its evidentiary value. Cannot corroborate identity of poster or veracity of claimed encounter.

Status: LOW RELIABILITY - Treat as rumor unless corroborated.
