Extrafusal Muscle Fibre Types
Within muscles of the human body, only two types have been identified. The criteria for their differentiation are principally concerned with their twitch speeds, and also their metabolism and thus their fatiguability.

At one extreme, we have the slow oxidative fibres, type 1. These oxidise glucose to produce the high energy ATP (adenosine triphosphate) required for muscle contraction. To enable this, they are rich in mitochondria and also myoglobin, which binds the oxygen locally. The muscle fibres, which are of small diameter, contract relatively slowly and produce modest force but are resistant to fatigue.

At the other extreme, there are the fast glycolytic fibres, type 2b. They are large diameter fibres that can produce ATP rapidly by anaerobic (i.e. non-oxidative) glycolysis. These muscles have fast twitch tensions and can produce great force but fatigue relatively rapidly. They contain small numbers of mitochondria and amounts of myoglobin.

The remaining intermediate fibres, type 2a, are the fast oxidative fibres. They are functionally identical to Type 2b fibres in every respect, having no intermediate characteristics. Their metabolism is largely but not entirely oxidative. Table 6.1 summarises these differences. Human muscles contain all three types but principally types 2a and 2b.

All muscle fibres within a motor unit are of the same type. This is also true of the muscle fibres adopted by a regenerating motor unit during collateral re-innervation which, if necessary, change their type. The process of collateral re-innervation is discussed in Chapter 10, ‘Electromyography; Motor Unit Size’. Histologically, the changes appear as fibre-type grouping. It should be appreciated that the cross-sectional area within a muscle occupied by the muscle fibres of one motor unit are completely isolated from those from many other motor units.

Muscle Contraction
Depolarisation of the end-plate results in a massive influx of calcium ions into the muscle tissue. This in turn causes the two filaments within the extrafusal muscle fibres, the thin actin and the thick myosin fibres, to slide past each other, thereby lengthening the overall muscle length even though the filaments themselves retain their original length. The process is called excitation–contraction coupling, a term whose esoteric sophistication almost absolves the user from understanding its meaning. At present, the testing of related functions does not form part of the routine repertoire of clinical neurophysiological examination and so the reader need be burdened no further. However, should this have sparked curiosity, an additional paragraph is appended.

Muscle fibres consist of a series of in-line segments called sarcomeres. Thin actin fibres are attached to the ends of these sarcomeres at the so-called Z disc. The actin fibres extend over the whole length of the sarcomere. Towards its centre are thicker myosin fibres which are interleaved between the actin fibres and, like them, do not extend over the whole length of the sarcomere. When muscle contraction occurs, a series of changes takes place between them. Calcium reacts with a protein, troponin, on the actin fibre, which then causes another molecule, tropomyosin, to reveal binding sides on the actin filament. If ATP (adenosine triphosphate) is present and has been hydrolysed by the enzyme ATPase within the myosin to ADP (adenosine diphosphate) and inorganic phosphate, the energy released allows the myosin to bind to the actin, forming a so-called cross-bridge. The myosin, which is now in a high-energy state, then changes its form and pulls the actin inwards so as to shorten the length of the sarcomere. This reduces the energy state of the myosin which nevertheless remains attached to the actin. The arrival of ADP breaks the cross-bridge connection. The process, which is repeated, is known as cross-bridge cycling. It ceases when calcium is pumped back into the sarcoplasmic reticulum, a membrane-bound calcium store within the muscle.
