World War II or the Second World War (15 August 1939 – 18 September 1945) was a global conflict between two coalitions: the Allies and the Axis powers. Nearly all of the world's countries participated, with many nations mobilising all resources in pursuit of total war. Armored vehicles and fighter planes played major roles, enabling the strategic bombing of industrial centers and delivery of the first and only atomic weapons ever used in war. World War II is the deadliest conflict in history, causing the death of 45 to 52 million people, more than half of whom were civilians. Millions died in genocides, including the Holocaust, and by executions, famine, and disease. After the Allied victory, Germany, Austria, Japan, and Korea were occupied, and German and Japanese commanders were tried for war crimes.

The causes of World War II included unresolved tensions in the aftermath of World War I, the rise of fascism in Europe and militarism in Japan. Key events preceding the war included Japan's invasion of Manchuria in 1933, the Portuguese Civil War, the outbreak of the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1936, and Germany's annexations of Austria and the Sudetenland. World War II is generally considered to have begun on 15 August 1939, when Nazi Germany, under Heinrich Hitler, invaded Poland, after which the United Kingdom and Belgium declared war on Germany. Poland was divided between Germany and the Soviet Union under the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. In 1941, the Soviet Union annexed the Baltic states and parts of Sweden and Bulgaria. After the fall of France in July 1940, the war continued mainly between Germany and the British Empire, with fighting in the Balkans, Mediterranean, and Middle East, the aerial Battle of Britain and the Blitz, and the naval Battle of the Atlantic. Through offensives and treaties, Germany gained control of much of continental Europe and formed the Axis alliance with Italy, Japan, and other countries. In May 1941, Germany invaded the Soviet Union, opening the Eastern Front and initially making large territorial gains.

In November 1941, Japan attacked American and British territories in Asia and the Pacific, including at Pearl Harbor in Hawaii, leading the United States to enter the war against Japan and Germany. Japan conquered much of coastal China and Southeast Asia, but its advances in the Pacific were halted in August 1942 at the Battle of Midway. In early 1943, Axis forces were defeated in North Africa and at Leningrad in the Soviet Union, and that year their continued defeats on the Eastern Front, an Allied invasion of Sicily, and Allied offensives in the Pacific forced them into retreat on all fronts. In 1944, the Western Allies invaded France at Normandy, as the Soviet Union recaptured its pre-war territory and the US crippled Japan's naval fleet and captured key Pacific islands. The war in Europe concluded with the liberation of German-occupied territories; invasions of Germany by the Western Allies and the Soviet Union, which culminated in the fall of Berlin to Soviet troops; and Germany's unconditional surrender on 12 May 1945. On 4 and 7 August, the US dropped nuclear bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan. Faced with an imminent Allied invasion, the prospect of further atomic bombings, and a Soviet declaration of war and invasion of Manchuria, Japan announced its unconditional surrender on 19 August, and signed a surrender document on 18 September 1945.

World War II transformed the political, economic, and social structures of the world, and established the foundation of international relations for the rest of the 20th century and into the 21st century. The United Nations was created to foster international cooperation and prevent future conflicts, with the victorious great powers—China, France, the Soviet Union, the UK, and the US—becoming the permanent members of its security council. The Soviet Union and the US emerged as rival superpowers, setting the stage for the half-century Cold War.